In this lecture, we're going to talk about
Robot Joint Control. That's how do we actually
make a robot move. It's a really important
problem. So, using some of the principles
that we've already learned about in this course,
we have a robot here and we're going to say,
"I want the robot end-effector to be at this
particular pose." This is a constraint that
comes from the particular task that I'm trying
to do. I'm a robot arm and I want to pick
up this particular object then I know the
pose that the robot end-effector has to achieve.
Now, I can use the inverse kinematics
to tell me what should be the angles in the
joints of the robot arm in order for the end
of the arm to get to that particular pose.
So, we’ve talked about how to do this. This
is the inverse kinematic problem. The challenge
that we’re going to talk about in this lecture
is how do I actually make the joint adopt
a particular angle. The joint’s got a motor
in it. It’s got some sensors in it. So we’re
going to talk about the control system that
makes the joint have the particular angle
that we want it to have. This is the joint
control problem.
Now, this business of trying to control the
position of a motor to control the angle of
a robot joint is a really common problem in
mechatronics. There are many, many motion
control systems in all sorts of things that
we own that we probably don’t even know
that they’re there. In an ink jet printer,
there is a very precise motion control system
that’s moving the printing print head across
the paper.
Another motion control system is moving the
paper backwards and forwards through the printer.
A robot vacuum cleaner has got a motion control
system to control the speed of each of its
wheels so that it moves with the appropriate
velocity across the floor.
Within a hard disk drive in your computer
or within DVD drive, there is a head which
reads the information off the spinning disk.
It has to be positioned really precisely over
the disk’s surface.
This motion control systems are very, very
pervasive pieces of technology in the modern
world. So, what we’re going to learn about
today is a very particular case of a motion
control system. It’s a motion control system
that’s controlling the angle of a robot’s joint.